---
layout: tutorial
title: Setting up elasticsearch
cat: tutorials
author: Clinton Gormley
nick: clintongormley
tutorial_desc: Setting up elasticsearch
---

These instructions work on linux, but can be easily adapated for other operating systems.

h2. Install the latest version of ElasticSearch

Check "http://www.elasticsearch.org/download/":http://www.elasticsearch.org/download/ for the latest version of ElasticSearch. (Currently version 0.17.2)

Install it as follows:

<pre>
curl -L -O http://cloud.github.com/downloads/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-0.17.2.zip
unzip elasticsearch-0.17.2.zip
mv elasticsearch-0.17.2 elasticsearch    # rename dir to ./elasticsearch
rm elasticsearch*.zip                    # tidy up
</pre>

h2. Optionally install the service wrapper

The service wrapper allows you to start, stop and restart elasticsearch using:

<pre>
./elasticsearch/bin/service/elasticsearch start | stop | restart
</pre>

If you <code>install</code> it, then it will be setup as a service which will start on boot, just like the other processes available in <code>/etc/init.d</code>. The service wrapper will also restart the ElasticSearch process if it dies for any reason.

h3. Install the service wrapper:

<pre>
curl -L http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-servicewrapper/tarball/master | tar -xz
mv *servicewrapper*/service elasticsearch/bin/
rm -Rf *servicewrapper*                  # tidy up

# Setup ElasticSearch as a service:
elasticsearch/bin/service/elasticsearch install

# Set up rcelasticsearch as a shortcut to the service wrapper:
ln -s `readlink -f elasticsearch/bin/service/elasticsearch` /usr/local/bin/rcelasticsearch
</pre>

h2. Configuring ElasticSearch

ElasticSearch needs minimal configuration to "just work", however there are a few things that you should set up.

Edit the file: <code>elasticsearch/config/elasticsearch.yml</code>

h3. Give your cluster a name.

This stops your cluster from trying to talk to other ElasticSearch clusters on the same network:

<pre>
cluster:
    name:               MyCluster
</pre>

h3. Set the network host

ElasticSearch tries to guess which IP address it should attach to. If you have more than one IP address on your server, then it may guess the wrong one.


<pre>
network:
    host:               192.168.1.10    # IP address of your server
                    OR  _en0_           # IP address of the first ethernet interface
</pre>

See "Node network settings":/guide/reference/modules/network.html for more.

h2. Configuring service wrapper

You can tweak the settings for the service wrapper by editing the file: <br /><code> elasticsearch/bin/service/elasticsearch.conf</code>

Probably the only values that you might want to update are the three at the top of the file, <code>ES_HOME</code> and the minimum and maximum amounts of memory that ElasticSearch should use.  The values for <code>ES_MIN_MEM</code> and <code>ES_MAX_MEM</code> depend on how much memory you have available on your machine.

<pre>
set.default.ES_HOME=<Path to ElasticSearch Home>
set.default.ES_MIN_MEM=256
set.default.ES_MAX_MEM=1024
</pre>

Also, see "Running ElasticSearch as a non-root user":/tutorials/2011/02/22/running-elasticsearch-as-a-non-root-user.html

h2. Starting and stopping ElasticSearch

h3. Using the service wrapper

The service wrapper ensures that you have only one running instance of ElasticSearch.

<pre>
rcelasticsearch start
rcelasticsearch stop
</pre>

h3. Without the service wrapper

h4. In the foreground

<pre>
./elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch -f
</pre>

Press <code>Ctrl-C</code> to stop the server
</pre>

h4. In the background

<pre>
#start, and write the PID to pidfile
./elasticsearch/bin/elasticsearch -p pidfile

#stop
kill `cat pidfile`
</pre>

