---
layout: tutorial
title: Attachment Type in Action
cat: tutorials
author: Lukas Vlcek
nick: lukasvlcek
tutorial_desc: Attachment Type in Action
---

This tutorial will walk you through basic attachment type setup and use in search including highlighting.

h1. Installation

First we need to install the attachments plugin, follow the instructions listed "here":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-mapper-attachments.

Make sure you *restart ElasticSearch*, so the plugins are picked up.

h1. Download some data

Let's download some PDF document:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -C - -O http://www.intersil.com/data/fn/fn6742.pdf
</pre>

Attachments plugin can parse and index documents in many formats. Check Tika web page for list of supported formats.

h1. Setup mapping

Prepare new index for the data.

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -X DELETE "localhost:9200/test"

curl -X PUT "localhost:9200/test" -d '{
  "settings" : { "index" : { "number_of_shards" : 1, "number_of_replicas" : 0 }}
}'
</pre>

Before we can use the attachments plugin we need to create correct mapping for the attachment type.

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -X PUT "localhost:9200/test/attachment/_mapping" -d '{
  "attachment" : {
    "properties" : {
      "file" : {
        "type" : "attachment",
        "fields" : {
          "title" : { "store" : "yes" },
          "file" : { "term_vector":"with_positions_offsets", "store":"yes" }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}'
</pre>

h1. Indexing the Data

We are ready to index the data. We just need to encode the content of the file with Base64 for which we will use a simpe Perl script.

<pre class="prettyprint">
#!/bin/sh

coded=`cat fn6742.pdf | perl -MMIME::Base64 -ne 'print encode_base64($_)'`
json="{\"file\":\"${coded}\"}"
echo "$json" > json.file
curl -X POST "localhost:9200/test/attachment/" -d @json.file
</pre>

h1. Search for Highlighted results

We are done indexing the data and we are now free to search it. To make it even more cool we want the document title and some highlighted results back (note how we setup mapping for the title and file content). 

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl "localhost:9200/_search?pretty=true" -d '{
  "fields" : ["title"],
  "query" : {
    "query_string" : {
      "query" : "amplifier"
    }
  },
  "highlight" : {
    "fields" : {
      "file" : {}
    }
  }
}'
</pre>

This will produce the following result:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
  "took" : 6,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "max_score" : 0.005872132,
    "hits" : [ {
      "_index" : "test",
      "_type" : "attachment",
      "_id" : "UUaHJ6CfTOC3T2I4Kj_pXg",
      "_score" : 0.005872132,
      "fields" : {
        "file.title" : "ISL99201"
      },
      "highlight" : {
        "file" : [ "\nMono <em>Amplifier</em> • Filterless Class D with Efficiency > 86% at 400mW\nThe ISL99201 is a fully integrat", "\nmono <em>amplifier</em>. It is designed to maximize performance for \nmobile phone applications. The applicat" ]
      }
    } ]
  }
}
</pre>
 
h3. Want to try yourself?

Go grab "this script":https://gist.github.com/1075067 and try yourself.
