---
layout: guide
title: Similarity module
cat: guide
sidebar: reference_index_modules
---

p. A similarity (scoring / ranking model) defines how matching documents are scored. Similarity is per field, meaning that via the mapping one can define a different similarity per field.

p. Configuring a custom similarity is considered a expert feature and the builtin similarities are most likely sufficient as is described in the "mapping section":/guide/reference/mapping/core-types.html

p. Configuring similarities is a @0.90.0.Beta1@ feature.

h1. Configuring a similarity

p. Most existing or custom Similarities have configuration options which can be configured via the index settings as shown below. The index options can be provided when creating an index or updating index settings.

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
"similarity" : {
  "my_similarity" : {
    "type" : "DFR",
    "basic_model" : "g",
    "after_effect" : "l",
    "normalization" : "h2",
    "normalization.h2.c" : "3.0"
  }
}
</pre>

p. Here we configure the DFRSimilarity so it can be referenced as `my_similarity` in mappings as is illustrate in the below example:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
  "book" : {
    "properties" : {
      "title" : { "type" : "string", "similarity" : "my_similarity" }
    }
} 
</pre>

h1. Available similarities

h2. Default similarity

p. The default similarity that is based on the TF/IDF model. This similarity has the following option:
* @discount_overlaps@ - Determines whether overlap tokens (Tokens with 0 position increment) are ignored when computing norm. By default this is true, meaning overlap tokens do not count when computing norms.

p. Type name: @default@

h2. BM25 similarity

p. Another TF/IDF based similarity that has built-in tf normalization and is supposed to work better for short fields (like names). See "Okapi_BM25":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Okapi_BM25 for more details. This similarity has the following options:
* @k1@ - Controls non-linear term frequency normalization (saturation).
* @b@ - Controls to what degree document length normalizes tf values.
* @discount_overlaps@ - Determines whether overlap tokens (Tokens with 0 position increment) are ignored when computing norm. By default this is true, meaning overlap tokens do not count when computing norms.

p. Type name: @BM25@

h2. DRF similarity

p. Similarity that implements the "divergence from randomness (DFR)":http://lucene.apache.org/core/4_1_0/core/org/apache/lucene/search/similarities/DFRSimilarity.html framework. This similarity has the following options:
* @basic_model@ - Possible values: @be@, @d@, @g@, @if@, @in@, @ine@ and @p@.
* @after_effect@ - Possible values: @no@, @b@ and @l@.
* @normalization@ - Possible values: @no@, @h1@, @h2@, @h3@ and @z@. All options but the first option need a normalization value.

p. Type name: @DFR@

h2. IB similarity.

p. "Information based model":http://lucene.apache.org/core/4_1_0/core/org/apache/lucene/search/similarities/IBSimilarity.html . This similarity has the following options:
* @distribution@ - Possible values: @ll@ and @spl@.
* @lambda@ - Possible values: @df@ and @ttf@.
* @normalization@ - Same as in @DFR@ similarity.

p. Type name: @IB@

h2. Default and Base Similarities

p. By default, ElasticSearch will use whatever Similarity is configured as @default@.  However, the Similarity functions @queryNorm()@ and @coord()@ are not per-field.  Consequently, for expert users wanting to change the implementation used for these two methods, while not changing the @default@, it is possible to configure a Similarity with the name @base@.  This Similarity will then be used for the two methods.
