---
layout: guide
title: Java Query DSL - Queries
cat: guide
sidebar: reference_java_api
---

p. elasticsearch provides a full Java query dsl in a similar manner to the REST "Query DSL":/guide/reference/query-dsl/. The factory for query builders is @QueryBuilders@. Once your query is ready, you can use the "Search API":/guide/reference/java-api/search.html.

p. See also how to build "Filters":/guide/reference/java-api/query-dsl-filters.html

p. To use @QueryBuilders@ just import them in your class:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
import org.elasticsearch.index.query.QueryBuilders.*;
</pre>

p. Note that you can easily print (aka debug) JSON generated queries using @toString()@ method on @QueryBuilder@ object.

p. The @QueryBuilder@ can then be used with any API that accepts a query, such as @count@ and @search@.

h1. Match Query

p. See "Match Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/match-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
QueryBuilder qb = QueryBuilders.matchQuery("name", "kimchy elasticsearch");
</pre>

h1. MultiMatch Query

p. See "MultiMatch Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/multi-match-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
QueryBuilder qb = QueryBuilders.multiMatchQuery(
    "kimchy elasticsearch",     // Text you are looking for
    "user", "message"           // Fields you query on
    );
</pre>

h1. Boolean Query

p. See "Boolean Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/bool-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
QueryBuilder qb = QueryBuilders
                    .boolQuery()
                    .must(termQuery("content", "test1"))
                    .must(termQuery("content", "test4"))
                    .mustNot(termQuery("content", "test2"))
                    .should(termQuery("content", "test3"));
</pre>

h1. Boosting Query

p. See "Boosting Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/boosting-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
QueryBuilders.boostingQuery()
            .positive(QueryBuilders.termQuery("name","kimchy"))
            .negative(QueryBuilders.termQuery("name","dadoonet"))
            .negativeBoost(0.2f);
</pre>

h1. IDs Query

p. See "IDs Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/ids-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
QueryBuilders.idsQuery().ids("1", "2");
</pre>

h1. Custom Score Query

p. See "Custom Score Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/custom-score-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
QueryBuilders.customScoreQuery(QueryBuilders.matchAllQuery())   // Your query here
                .script("_score * doc['price'].value");         // Your script here

// If the script have parameters, use the same script and provide parameters to it.
QueryBuilders.customScoreQuery(QueryBuilders.matchAllQuery())
                .script("_score * doc['price'].value / pow(param1, param2)")
                .param("param1", 2)
                .param("param2", 3.1);
</pre>

h1. Custom Boost Factor Query

p. See "Custom Boost Factor Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/custom-boost-factor-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
QueryBuilders.customBoostFactorQuery(QueryBuilders.matchAllQuery()) // Your query
                .boostFactor(3.1f);
</pre>

h1. Constant Score Query

p. See "Constant Score Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/constant-score-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
// Using with Filters
QueryBuilders.constantScoreQuery(FilterBuilders.termFilter("name","kimchy"))
                .boost(2.0f);

// With Queries
QueryBuilders.constantScoreQuery(QueryBuilders.termQuery("name","kimchy"))
                .boost(2.0f);
</pre>

h1. Disjunction Max Query

p. See "Disjunction Max Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/dis-max-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
QueryBuilders.disMaxQuery()
                .add(QueryBuilders.termQuery("name","kimchy"))          // Your queries
                .add(QueryBuilders.termQuery("name","elasticsearch"))   // Your queries
                .boost(1.2f)
                .tieBreaker(0.7f);
</pre>

h1. Field Query

p. See "Field Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/field-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
QueryBuilders.fieldQuery("name", "+kimchy -dadoonet");

// Note that you can write the same query using queryString query.
QueryBuilders.queryString("+kimchy -dadoonet").field("name");
</pre>

h1. Fuzzy Like This (Field) Query (flt and flt_field)

p. See:
* "Fuzzy Like This Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/flt-query.html documentation
* "Fuzzy Like This Field Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/flt-field-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
// flt Query
QueryBuilders.fuzzyLikeThisQuery("name.first", "name.last")     // Fields
                .likeText("text like this one")                 // Text
                .maxQueryTerms(12);                             // Max num of Terms
                                                                // in generated queries

// flt_field Query
QueryBuilders.fuzzyLikeThisFieldQuery("name.first")             // Only on single field
                .likeText("text like this one")
                .maxQueryTerms(12);
</pre>

h1. FuzzyQuery

p. See "Fuzzy Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/fuzzy-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
QueryBuilder qb = QueryBuilders.fuzzyQuery("name", "kimzhy");
</pre>

h1. Has Child / Has Parent

p. See:
* "Has Child Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/has-child-query.html documentation
* "Has Parent Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/has-parent-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
// Has Child
QueryBuilders.hasChildQuery("blog_tag",
                QueryBuilders.termQuery("tag","something"))

// Has Parent
QueryBuilders.hasParentQuery("blog",
                QueryBuilders.termQuery("tag","something"));
</pre>

h1. MatchAll Query

p. See "Match All Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/match-all-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
QueryBuilder qb = QueryBuilders.matchAllQuery();
</pre>

h1. Fuzzy Like This (Field) Query (flt and flt_field)

p. See:
* "More Like This Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/mlt-query.html documentation
* "More Like This Field Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/mlt-field-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
// mlt Query
QueryBuilders.moreLikeThisQuery("name.first", "name.last")      // Fields
                .likeText("text like this one")                 // Text
                .minTermFreq(1)                                 // Ignore Threshold
                .maxQueryTerms(12);                             // Max num of Terms
                                                                // in generated queries

// mlt_field Query
QueryBuilders.fmoreLikeThisFieldQuery("name.first")             // Only on single field
                .likeText("text like this one")
                .minTermFreq(1)
                .maxQueryTerms(12);
</pre>

h1. Prefix Query

p. See "Prefix Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/prefix-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
QueryBuilders.prefixQuery("brand", "heine");
</pre>

h1. QueryString Query

p. See "QueryString Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/query-string-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
QueryBuilder qb = QueryBuilders.queryString("+kimchy -elasticsearch");
</pre>

h1. Range Query

p. See "Range Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/range-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
QueryBuilder qb = QueryBuilders
                    .rangeQuery("price")
                    .from(5)
                    .to(10)
                    .includeLower(true)
                    .includeUpper(false);
</pre>

h1. Span Queries (first, near, not, or, term)

p. See:
* "Span First Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/span-first-query.html documentation
* "Span Near Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/span-near-query.html documentation
* "Span Not Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/span-not-query.html documentation
* "Span Or Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/span-or-query.html documentation
* "Span Term Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/span-term-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
// Span First
QueryBuilders.spanFirstQuery(
                QueryBuilders.spanTermQuery("user", "kimchy"),  // Query
                3                                               // Max End position
        );

// Span Near
QueryBuilders.spanNearQuery()
    .clause(QueryBuilders.spanTermQuery("field","value1"))  // Span Term Queries
    .clause(QueryBuilders.spanTermQuery("field","value2"))
    .clause(QueryBuilders.spanTermQuery("field","value3"))
    .slop(12)                                               // Slop factor
    .inOrder(false)
    .collectPayloads(false);

// Span Not
QueryBuilders.spanNotQuery()
    .include(QueryBuilders.spanTermQuery("field","value1"))
    .exclude(QueryBuilders.spanTermQuery("field","value2"));

// Span Or
QueryBuilders.spanOrQuery()
    .clause(QueryBuilders.spanTermQuery("field","value1"))
    .clause(QueryBuilders.spanTermQuery("field","value2"))
    .clause(QueryBuilders.spanTermQuery("field","value3"));

// Span Term
QueryBuilders.spanTermQuery("user","kimchy");
</pre>

h1. Term Query

p. See "Term Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/term-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
QueryBuilder qb = QueryBuilders.termQuery("name", "kimchy");
</pre>

h1. Terms Query

p. See "Terms Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/terms-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
QueryBuilders.termsQuery("tags",    // field
    "blue", "pill")                 // values
    .minimumMatch(1);               // How many terms must match
</pre>

h1. Top Children Query

p. See "Top Children Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/top-children-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
QueryBuilders.topChildrenQuery(
        "blog_tag",                                 // field
        QueryBuilders.termQuery("tag", "something") // Query
    )
    .score("max")                                   // max, sum or avg
    .factor(5)
    .incrementalFactor(2);
</pre>

h1. Wildcard Query

p. See "Wildcard Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/wildcard-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
QueryBuilders.wildcardQuery("user", "k?mc*");
</pre>

h1. Nested Query

p. See "Nested Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/nested-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
QueryBuilders.nestedQuery("obj1",               // Path
                QueryBuilders.boolQuery()       // Your query
                        .must(QueryBuilders.matchQuery("obj1.name", "blue"))
                        .must(QueryBuilders.rangeQuery("obj1.count").gt(5))
            )
            .scoreMode("avg");                  // max, total, avg or none
</pre>

h1. Custom Filters Score Query

p. See "Custom Filters Score Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/custom-filters-score-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
QueryBuilders.customFiltersScoreQuery(
                QueryBuilders.matchAllQuery())  // Query
            // Filters with their boost factors
            .add(FilterBuilders.rangeFilter("age").from(0).to(10), 3)
            .add(FilterBuilders.rangeFilter("age").from(10).to(20), 2)
            .scoreMode("first");    // first, min, max, total, avg or multiply
</pre>

h1. Indices Query

p. See "Indices Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/indices-query.html documentation

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
// Using another query when no match for the main one
QueryBuilders.indicesQuery(
                QueryBuilders.termQuery("tag", "wow"),
                "index1", "index2"
            )
            .noMatchQuery(QueryBuilders.termQuery("tag", "kow"));

// Using all (match all) or none (match no documents)
QueryBuilders.indicesQuery(
                QueryBuilders.termQuery("tag", "wow"),
                "index1", "index2"
            )
            .noMatchQuery("all");       // all or none
</pre>

h1. GeoShape Query

p. See "GeoShape Query":/guide/reference/query-dsl/geo-shape-query.html documentation

Note: the @geo_shape@ type uses @Spatial4J@ and @JTS@, both of which are optional dependencies. Consequently you must add @Spatial4J@ and @JTS@ to your classpath in order to use this type:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-xml">
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.spatial4j</groupId>
    <artifactId>spatial4j</artifactId>
    <version>0.3</version>
</dependency>

<dependency>
    <groupId>com.vividsolutions</groupId>
    <artifactId>jts</artifactId>
    <version>1.12</version>
    <exclusions>
        <exclusion>
            <groupId>xerces</groupId>
            <artifactId>xercesImpl</artifactId>
        </exclusion>
    </exclusions>
</dependency>
</pre>

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
// Import Spatial4J shapes
import com.spatial4j.core.context.SpatialContext;
import com.spatial4j.core.shape.Shape;
import com.spatial4j.core.shape.impl.RectangleImpl;

// Also import ShapeRelation
import org.elasticsearch.common.geo.ShapeRelation;
</pre>

<pre class="prettyprint lang-java">
// Shape within another
QueryBuilders.geoShapeQuery("location",
                new RectangleImpl(0,10,0,10,SpatialContext.GEO))
            .relation(ShapeRelation.WITHIN);

// Intersect shapes
QueryBuilders.geoShapeQuery("location",
                new PointImpl(0, 0, SpatialContext.GEO))
            .relation(ShapeRelation.INTERSECTS);

// Using pre-indexed shapes
QueryBuilders.geoShapeQuery("location", "New Zealand", "countries")
            .relation(ShapeRelation.DISJOINT);
</pre>

