---
layout: guide
title: Search API - Rescoring
cat: guide
sidebar: reference_api_search
---

Rescoring can help to improve precision by reordering just the top (eg 100 - 500) documents returned by the "@query@":/guide/reference/api/search/query.html and "@filter@":/guide/reference/api/search/filter.html phases, using a secondary (usually more costly) algorithm, instead of applying the costly algorithm to all documents in the index.

A @rescore@ request is executed on each shard before it returns its results to
be sorted by the node handling the overall search request.

Currently the rescore API has only one implementation: the query rescorer, which
uses a query to tweak the scoring. In the future, alternative rescorers may
be made available, eg a pair-wise rescorer.

*Note:* the @rescore@ phase is not executed when "@search_type@":/guide/reference/api/search/search-type.html is set to @scan@ or @count@.


h1. Query rescorer

The query rescorer executes a second query only on the Top-K results returned by the "@query@":/guide/reference/api/search/query.html and "@filter@":/guide/reference/api/search/filter.html phases. The number of docs which will be examined on each shard can be controlled by the @window_size@ parameter, which defaults to "@from@":/guide/reference/api/search/from.html + "@size@":/guide/reference/api/search/size.html.

The scores from the original query and the rescore query are combined linearly to produce the final @_score@ for each document. The relative importance of the original query and of the rescore query can be controlled with the @query_weight@ and @rescore_query_weight@ respectively.  Both default to @1@.

For example:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -s -XPOST 'localhost:9200/_search' -d '{
   "query" : {
      "match" : {
         "field1" : {
            "operator" : "OR",
            "query" : "the quick brown",
            "type" : "boolean"
         }
      }
   },
   "rescore" : {
      "window_size" : 50,
      "query" : {
         "rescore_query" : {
            "match" : {
               "field1" : {
                  "query" : "the quick brown",
                  "type" : "phrase",
                  "slop" : 2
               }
            }
         },
         "query_weight" : 0.7,
         "rescore_query_weight" : 1.2
      }
   }
}
'
</pre>
