---
layout: guide
title: Warmers API
cat: guide
sidebar: reference_api
---

p. Index warming allows to run registered search requests to warm up the index before it is available for search. With the near real time aspect of search, cold data (segments) will be warmed up before they become available for search. This feature is available from version 0.20 onwards.

p. Warmup searches typically include requests that require heavy loading of data, such as faceting or sorting on specific fields. The warmup APIs allows to register warmup (search) under specific names, remove them, and get them.

p. Index warmup can be disabled by setting @index.warmer.enabled@ to @false@. It is supported as a realtime setting using update settings API. This can be handy when doing initial bulk indexing, disabling pre registered warmers to make indexing faster and less expensive and then enable it.

h1. Index Creation / Templates

p. Warmers can be registered when an index gets created, for example:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XPUT localhost:9200/test -d '{
    "warmers" : {
        "warmer_1" : {
            "types" : [],
            "source" : {
                "query" : {
                    ...
                },
                "facets" : {
                    ...
                }
            }
        }
    }
}'
</pre>

p. Or, in an index template:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XPUT localhost:9200/_template/template_1 -d '
{
    "template" : "te*",
    "warmers" : {
        "warmer_1" : {
            "types" : [],
            "source" : {
                "query" : {
                    ...
                },
                "facets" : {
                    ...
                }
            }
        }
    }
}'
</pre>

h1. Put Warmer

p. Allows to put a warmup search request on a specific index (or indices), with the body composing of a regular search request. Types can be provided as part of the URI if the search request is designed to be run only against the specific types.

p. Here is an example that registers a warmup called @warmer_1@ against index @test@ (can be alias or several indices), for a search request that runs against all types:


<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XPUT localhost:9200/test/_warmer/warmer_1 -d '{
    "query" : {
        "match_all" : {}
    },
    "facets" : {
        "facet_1" : {
            "terms" : {
                "field" : "field"
            }
        } 
    }
}'
</pre>

p. And an example that registers a warmup against specific types:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XPUT localhost:9200/test/type1/_warmer/warmer_1 -d '{
    "query" : {
        "match_all" : {}
    },
    "facets" : {
        "facet_1" : {
            "terms" : {
                "field" : "field"
            }
        } 
    }
}'
</pre>

h1. Delete Warmer

p. Removing a warmer can be done against an index (or alias / indices) based on its name. The provided name can be a simple wildcard expression or omitted to remove all warmers. Some samples:

<pre class="prettyprint">
# delete warmer named warmer_1 on test index
curl -XDELETE localhost:9200/test/_warmer/warmer_1 

# delete all warmers that start with warm on test index
curl -XDELETE localhost:9200/test/_warmer/warm* 

# delete all warmers for test index
curl -XDELETE localhost:9200/test/_warmer/
</pre>

h1. GETting Warmer

p. Getting a warmer for specific index (or alias, or several indices) based on its name. The provided name can be a simple wildcard expression or omitted to get all warmers. Some examples: 

<pre class="prettyprint">
# get warmer named warmer_1 on test index
curl -XGET localhost:9200/test/_warmer/warmer_1 

# get all warmers that start with warm on test index
curl -XGET localhost:9200/test/_warmer/warm* 

# get all warmers for test index
curl -XGET localhost:9200/test/_warmer/
</pre>