---
layout: guide
title: API
cat: guide
sidebar: reference_api
---

p. This section describes the REST APIs *elasticsearch* provides (mainly) using JSON. The API is exposed using "HTTP":/guide/reference/modules/http.html, "thrift":/guide/reference/modules/thrift.html, "memcached":/guide/reference/modules/memcached.html.

h1. Nodes

p. Most cluster level APIs allow to specify which nodes to execute on (for example, getting the node stats for a node). Nodes can be identified in the APIs either using their internal node id, the node name, address, custom attributes, or just the @_local@ node receiving the request. For example, here are some sample executions of nodes info:

<pre class="prettyprint">
# Local    
curl localhost:9200/_cluster/nodes/_local
# Address
curl localhost:9200/_cluster/nodes/10.0.0.3,10.0.0.4
curl localhost:9200/_cluster/nodes/10.0.0.*
# Names
curl localhost:9200/_cluster/nodes/node_name_goes_here
curl localhost:9200/_cluster/nodes/node_name_goes_*
# Attributes (set something like node.rack: 2 in the config)
curl localhost:9200/_cluster/nodes/rack:2
curl localhost:9200/_cluster/nodes/ra*:2
curl localhost:9200/_cluster/nodes/ra*:2*
</pre>

h1. Options

h2. Pretty Results

p. When appending @?pretty=true@ to any request made, the JSON returned will be pretty formatted (use it for debugging only!).

h2. Parameters

p. Rest parameters (when using HTTP, map to HTTP URL parameters) follow the convention of using underscore casing.

h2. Boolean Values

p. All REST APIs parameters (both request parameters and JSON body) support providing boolean "false" as the values: @false@, @0@ and @off@. All other values are considered "true". Note, this is not related to fields within a document indexed treated as boolean fields.

h2. Number Values

p. All REST APIs support providing numbered parameters as @string@ on top of supporting the native JSON number types.

h2. Result Casing

p. All REST APIs accept the @case@ parameter. When set to @camelCase@, all field names in the result will be returned in camel casing, otherwise, underscore casing will be used. Note, this does not apply to the source document indexed.

h2. JSONP

p. All REST APIs accept a @callback@ parameter resulting in a "JSONP":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSONP result.
p. You can also use the @source@ query string parameter to substitute for the body of the request.
