---
layout: guide
title: Fuzzy Query
cat: guide
sidebar: reference_query_dsl
---

p. A fuzzy based query that uses similarity based on Levenshtein (edit distance) algorithm.

p(note). Warning: this query is not very scalable with its default prefix length of 0 - in this case, *every* term will be enumerated and cause an edit score calculation or @max_expansions@ is not set.

Here is a simple example:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "fuzzy" : { "user" : "ki" }
}
</pre>

p. More complex settings can be set (the values here are the default values):

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
    {
        "fuzzy" : { 
            "user" : {
                "value" : "ki",
                "boost" : 1.0,
                "min_similarity" : 0.5,
                "prefix_length" : 0
            }
        }
    }
</pre>

p. The @max_expansions@ parameter (unbounded by default) controls the number of terms the fuzzy query will expand to.

h2. Numeric / Date Fuzzy

p. @fuzzy@ query on a numeric field will result in a range query "around" the value using the @min_similarity@ value. For example:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "fuzzy" : {
        "price" : {
            "value" : 12,
            "min_similarity" : 2
        }
    }
}
</pre>

p. Will result in a range query between 10 and 14. Same applies to dates, with support for time format for the @min_similarity@ field:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "fuzzy" : {
        "created" : {
            "value" : "2010-02-05T12:05:07",
            "min_similarity" : "1d"
        }
    }
}
</pre>

p. In the mapping, numeric and date types now allow to configure a @fuzzy_factor@ mapping value (defaults to 1), which will be used to multiply the fuzzy value by it when used in a @query_string@ type query. For example, for dates, a fuzzy factor of "1d" will result in multiplying whatever fuzzy value provided in the min_similarity by it. Note, this is explicitly supported since query_string query only allowed for similarity valued between 0.0 and 1.0.