---
layout: guide
title: Has Parent Filter
cat: guide
sidebar: reference_query_dsl
---

p. The @has_parent@ filter accepts a query and a parent type. The query is executed in the parent document space, which is specified by the parent type. This filter return child documents which associated parents have matched. For the rest @has_parent@ filter has the same options and works in the same manner as the @has_child@ filter. 

The @has_parent@ filter is available from version @0.19.10@. This is an experimental filter.

h1. Filter example

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "has_parent" : {
        "parent_type" : "blog",
        "query" : {
            "term" : {
                "tag" : "something"
            }
        }
    }
}  
</pre>
The @parent_type@ field name can also be abbreviated to @type@.

p. The way that the filter is implemented is by first running the parent query, doing the matching up to the child doc for each document matched.

h1. Scope

p. A @_scope@ can be defined on the filter allowing to run facets on the same scope name that will work against the parent documents. For example:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "has_parent" : {
        "_scope" : "my_scope",
        "parent_type" : "blog",
        "query" : {
            "term" : {
                "tag" : "something"
            }
        }
    }
}    
</pre>


h1. Memory considerations

p. With the current implementation, all @_id@ values are loaded to memory (heap) in order to support fast lookups, so make sure there is enough memory for it.
