---
layout: guide
title: Has Child Query
cat: guide
sidebar: reference_query_dsl
---

p. The @has_child@ query works the same as the "has_child":has-child-filter.html filter, by automatically wrapping the filter with a "constant_score":constant-score-query.html (when using the default score type). It has the same syntax as the "has_child":has-child-filter.html filter:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "has_child" : {
        "type" : "blog_tag",
        "query" : {
            "term" : {
                "tag" : "something"
            }
        }
    }
}    
</pre>

p. An important difference with the @top_children@ query is that this query is always executed in two interations whereas the @top_children@ query can be executed in one or more iteration. When using the @has_child@ query the @total_hits@ is always correct.

h2. Scoring capabilities

The @has_child@ also has scoring support from version @0.20.2@. The supported score types are @max@, @sum@, @avg@ or @none@. The default is @none@ and yields the same behaviour as in previous versions. If the score type is set to another value than @none@, the scores of all the matching child documents are aggregated into the associated parent documents. The score type can be specified with the @score_type@ field inside the @has_child@ query:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "has_child" : {
        "type" : "blog_tag",
        "score_type" : "sum",
        "query" : {
            "term" : {
                "tag" : "something"
            }
        }
    }
}    
</pre>

h2. Scope

p. A @_scope@ can be defined on the filter allowing to run facets on the same scope name that will work against the child documents. For example:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "has_child" : {
        "_scope" : "my_scope",
        "type" : "blog_tag",
        "query" : {
            "term" : {
                "tag" : "something"
            }
        }
    }
}    
</pre>

h1. Memory Considerations

p. With the current implementation, all @_id@ values are loaded to memory (heap) in order to support fast lookups, so make sure there is enough mem for it.