---
layout: guide
title: Has Parent Query
cat: guide
sidebar: reference_query_dsl
---

p. The @has_parent@ query works the same as the "has_parent":has-parent-filter.html filter, by automatically wrapping the filter with a constant_score. It has the same syntax as the "has_parent":has-parent-filter.html filter. This query is experimental and is available from version @0.19.10@.

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "has_parent" : {
        "parent_type" : "blog",
        "query" : {
            "term" : {
                "tag" : "something"
            }
        }
    }
}    
</pre>

h2. Scoring capabilities

The @has_parent@ also has scoring support from version @0.20.2@. The supported score types are @score@ or @none@. The default is @none@ and yields the same behaviour as in previous versions. If the score type is set to another value than @none@, the scores of all the matching parent documents are aggregated into the associated child documents. The score type can be specified with the @score_type@ field inside the @has_parent@ query:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "has_parent" : {
        "parent_type" : "blog",
        "score_type" : "score",
        "query" : {
            "term" : {
                "tag" : "something"
            }
        }
    }
}    
</pre>

h2. Scope

p. A @_scope@ can be defined on the filter allowing to run facets on the same scope name that will work against the parent documents. For example:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "has_parent" : {
        "_scope" : "my_scope",
        "parent_type" : "blog",
        "query" : {
            "term" : {
                "tag" : "something"
            }
        }
    }
}    
</pre>

h1. Memory Considerations

p. With the current implementation, all @_id@ values are loaded to memory (heap) in order to support fast lookups, so make sure there is enough memory for it.