---
layout: guide
title: Timestamp Field
cat: guide
sidebar: reference_mapping
---

p. The @_timestamp@ field allows to automatically index the timestamp of a document. It can be provided externally via the index request or in the @_source@. If it is not provided externally it will be automatically set to the date the document was processed by the indexing chain.

h1. enabled

p. By default it is disabled, in order to enable it, the following mapping should be defined:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "tweet" : {
        "_timestamp" : { "enabled" : true }
    }
}
</pre>


h1. store / index

p. By default the @_timestamp@ field has @store@ set to @no@ and @index@ set to @not_analyzed@. It can be queried as a standard date field.

h1. path

p. The @_timestamp@ value can be provided as an external value when indexing. But, it can also be automatically extracted from the document to index based on a @path@. For example, having the following mapping:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "tweet" : {
        "_timestamp" : {
            "enabled" : true,
            "path" : "post_date"
        }
    }
}
</pre>

p. Will cause @2009-11-15T14:12:12@ to be used as the timestamp value for:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "message" : "You know, for Search",
    "post_date" : "2009-11-15T14:12:12"
    }
}
</pre>

p. Note, using @path@ without explicit timestamp value provided require an additional (though quite fast) parsing phase.

h1. format

p. You can define the "date format":date-format.html used to parse the provided timestamp value. For example:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "tweet" : {
        "_timestamp" : {
            "enabled" : true,
            "path" : "post_date",
            "format" : "YYYY-MM-dd"
        }
    }
}
</pre>

Note, the default format is @dateOptionalTime@. The timestamp value will first be parsed as a number and if it fails the format will be tried.
