---
layout: guide
title: TTL Field
cat: guide
sidebar: reference_mapping
---

p. A lot of documents naturally come with an expiration date. Documents can therefore have a @_ttl@ (time to live), which will cause the expired documents to be deleted automatically.

h1. enabled

p. By default it is disabled, in order to enable it, the following mapping should be defined:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "tweet" : {
        "_ttl" : { "enabled" : true }
    }
}
</pre>

h1. store / index

p. By default the @_ttl@ field has @store@ set to @yes@ and @index@ set to @not_analyzed@. Note that @index@ property has to be set to @not_analyzed@ in order for the purge process to work.

h1. default

p. You can provide a per index/type default @_ttl@ value as follows:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "tweet" : {
        "_ttl" : { "enabled" : true, "default" : "1d" }
    }
}
</pre>

p. In this case, if you don't provide a @_ttl@ value in your query or in the @_source@ all tweets will have a @_ttl@ of one day.

p. If no @default@ is set and no @_ttl@ value is given then the document has an infinite @_ttl@ and will not expire.

h1. Note on documents expiration

p. Expired documents will be automatically deleted regularly. You can dynamically set the @indices.ttl.interval@ to fit your needs. The default value is @60s@.

p. The deletion orders are processed by bulk. You can set @indices.ttl.bulk_size@ to fit your needs. The default value is @10000@.

p. Note that the expiration procedure handle versioning properly so if a document is updated between the collection of documents to expire and the delete order, the document won't be deleted.