---
layout: guide
title: Clients & Integrations
cat: guide
---

h2. Clients

* "ElasticSearch.pm":http://github.com/clintongormley/ElasticSearch.pm: Perl client.
* "pyes":http://github.com/aparo/pyes: Python client.
* "Tire":http://github.com/karmi/tire: Ruby API & DSL, with ActiveRecord/ActiveModel integration.
* "Elastica":http://github.com/ruflin/Elastica: PHP client.
* "rubberband":http://github.com/grantr/rubberband: Ruby client.
* "em-elasticsearch":http://github.com/vangberg/em-elasticsearch: elasticsearch library for eventmachine.
*  "elastic_searchable":https://github.com/wireframe/elastic_searchable/: Ruby client + Rails integration.
* "erlastic_search":http://github.com/tsloughter/erlastic_search: Erlang client.
* "elasticsearch":http://github.com/nervetattoo/elasticsearch PHP client.
* "PlainElastic.Net":https://github.com/Yegoroff/PlainElastic.Net: .NET client.
* "NEST":https://github.com/Mpdreamz/NEST: .NET client.
* "ElasticSearch.NET":https://github.com/medcl/ElasticSearch.Net: .NET client.
* "pyelasticsearch":http://github.com/rhec/pyelasticsearch: Python client.
* "Elastisch":http://github.com/clojurewerkz/elastisch: Clojure client.
* "ESClient":https://github.com/eriky/ESClient: A lightweight and easy to use Python client for ElasticSearch
* "scalastic":https://github.com/bsadeh/scalastic: Scala client
* "rawes":https://github.com/humangeo/rawes: Python low level client


h2. Integrations

* "Grails":http://grails.org/plugin/elasticsearch: ElasticSearch Grails plugin.
* "escargot":https://github.com/angelf/escargot: ElasticSearch connector for Rails (WIP).
* "Catalyst":https://metacpan.org/module/Catalyst::Model::Search::ElasticSearch: ElasticSearch and Catalyst integration.
* "django-elasticsearch":http://github.com/aparo/django-elasticsearch: Django ElasticSearch Backend.
* "elasticflume":http://github.com/Aconex/elasticflume: "Flume":http://github.com/cloudera/flume sink implementation.
* "Terrastore Search":http://code.google.com/p/terrastore/wiki/Search_Integration: "Terrastore":http://code.google.com/p/terrastore/ integration module with elasticsearch.
* "Wonderdog":https://github.com/infochimps/wonderdog: Hadoop bulk loader into elasticsearch.
* "Play! Framework":http://geeks.aretotally.in/play-framework-module-elastic-search-distributed-searching-with-json-http-rest-or-java: Integrate with Play! Framework Application.
* "ElasticaBundle":https://github.com/Exercise/FOQElasticaBundle: Symfony2 Bundle wrapping Elastica.
* "Drupal":http://drupal.org/project/elasticsearch: Drupal ElasticSearch integration.
* "couch_es":https://github.com/refuge/couch_es: elasticsearch helper for couchdb based products (apache couchdb, bigcouch & refuge)
* "Jetty":https://github.com/sonian/elasticsearch-jetty: Jetty HTTP Transport
* "Spring Elasticsearch":https://github.com/dadoonet/spring-elasticsearch: Spring Factory for Elasticsearch
* "elasticsearch-test":https://github.com/tlrx/elasticsearch-test: Elasticsearch Java annotations for unit testing with "JUnit":http://www.junit.org/

h2. Misc

* "Puppet":https://github.com/visibiz/puppet-elasticsearch: elasticsearch puppet module.
* "Chef":http://community.opscode.com/cookbooks/elasticsearch: elasticsearch community Chef cookbook.
* "Chef & EC2":http://github.com/karmi/cookbook-elasticsearch: elasticsearch cookbook with EC2 integration and Vagrant support.
* "elasticsearch-rpms":https://github.com/tavisto/elasticsearch-rpms: RPMs for elasticsearch.
* "daikon":http://www.github.com/neogenix/daikon: Daikon ElasticSearch CLI
* "Scrutineer":https://github.com/Aconex/scrutineer: A high performance consistency checker to compare what you've indexed with your source of truth content (e.g. DB)
* "check-es":https://github.com/radu-gheorghe/check-es: Nagios/Shinken plugins for checking on elasticsearch

h2. Front Ends

* "elasticsearch-head":https://github.com/mobz/elasticsearch-head: A web front end for an elastic search cluster.
* "bigdesk":https://github.com/lukas-vlcek/bigdesk: Live charts and statistics for elasticsearch cluster.
* "paramedic":https://github.com/karmi/elasticsearch-paramedic: Live charts with cluster stats and indices/shards information.
* "SPM for ElasticSearch":http://sematext.com/spm/index.html: Performance monitoring with live charts showing cluster and node stats, integrated alerts, email reports, etc.

h2. GitHub

p. GitHub is a place where a lot of development is done around *elasticsearch*, here is a simple search for "repos":https://github.com/search?q=elasticsearch&type=Repositories.
