---
layout: download
cat: download
version: 0.20.2
title: 0.20.2
download_url: https://download.elasticsearch.org/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-0.20.2.zip
download_nix_url: https://download.elasticsearch.org/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-0.20.2.tar.gz
download_deb_url: https://download.elasticsearch.org/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-0.20.2.deb
download_source_url: https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/zipball/v0.20.2
release_notes: true
---

h2. Upgrade Notes:
 * Upgrading from 0.19 requires a full cluster restart.

h2. Breaking Changes:

* Shared Gateway has been deprecated ("2459":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/2459)
* Snappy compression has been deprecated ("2458":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/2458)
* Plugins Installer: Allow to download plugins from download.elasticsearch.org ("#2507":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2507)


h2. New features:
 * Allow highlighting on wildcard fields.. ie, comment_* ("#2396":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2396)


h2. Enhancements:
 * Nested query should support explain. ("#2503":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2503)
 * Add scoring support to @has_child@ and @has_parent@ queries ("#2502":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2502)
 * match_all filter with empty array (instead of obj) fires exception when used with facets  ("#2493":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2493)
 * Update settings: Allow to dynamically update thread pool settings ("#2509":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2509)


h2. Bug fixes:
 * top_children query fails with dfs_query_* searchtype and some queries ("#2501":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2501)
 * ArrayOutOfBoundException when using top_children in a must not clause. ("#2500":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2500)
 * Search failures are not serialized correctly in MultiSearchResponse ("#2498":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2498)
 * ShardSearchFailure handling of exception does not take actual into account for status ("#2495":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2495)
 * Mlt api fails to work when routing isn't id based. ("#2489":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2489)
 * First indexing of a dynamic boolean field can cause it not to be indexed correctly ("#2487":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2487)
 * *:* query not working ("#2486":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2486)

