---
layout: download
cat: download
version: 0.19.12
title: 0.19.12
download_url: https://download.elasticsearch.org/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-0.19.12.zip
download_nix_url: https://download.elasticsearch.org/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-0.19.12.tar.gz
download_deb_url: https://download.elasticsearch.org/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-0.19.12.deb
download_source_url: https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/zipball/v0.19.12
release_notes: true
---

h2. Upgrade Notes:
 * Upgrading from 0.18 requires issuing a full flush of all the indices in the cluster (@curl host:9200/_flush@) before shutting down the cluster, with no indexing operations happening after the flush.
 * The local gateway state structure has changed from 0.18, a backup of the state files is created when upgrading, they can then be used to downgrade back to 0.18. Don't downgrade without using them.

h2. Breaking changes:
 * Deprecate Experimental Snappy Support ("#2459":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2459)
 * Deprecate Shared Gateway ("#2458":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2458)
 * Shard Allocation: add index.routing.allocation.require.... and cluster.routing.allocation.require.... setting ("#2404":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2404)


h2. New features:
 * Indexing Slow Log ("#2457":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2457)


h2. Enhancements:
 * Upgrade to Netty 3.5.11 ("#2456":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2456)
 * Add types and stats to search slow log ("#2455":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2455)
 * Upgrade to netty 3.5.10 ("#2399":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2399)
 * Node Stats: Add largest thread pool count per thread pool stats ("#2382":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2382)


h2. Bug fixes:
 * Setting logger levels using cluster update settings does not work ("#2428":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2428)
 * NullPointerException with prefix query ("#2408":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2408)
 * Deriving the REST status code from a failure can, very rarely, cause an infinite loop ("#2402":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2402)
 * Adding a type with _source or _all enabled fails, when these are disabled in index ("#2394":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2394)
 * Multi Match: tie_breaker should allow for floating point value ("#2397":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2397)


