---
layout: download
cat: download
version: 0.19.5
title: 0.19.5
download_url: https://github.com/downloads/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-0.19.5.zip
download_nix_url: https://github.com/downloads/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-0.19.5.tar.gz
download_deb_url: https://github.com/downloads/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-0.19.5.deb
download_source_url: https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/zipball/v0.19.5
release_notes: true
---

h2. Upgrade Notes:
 * Upgrading from 0.18 requires issuing a full flush of all the indices in the cluster (@curl host:9200/_flush@) before shutting down the cluster, with no indexing operations happening after the flush.
 * The local gateway state structure has changed, a backup of the state files is created when upgrading, they can then be used to downgrade back to 0.18. Don't downgrade without using them.

h2. New features:
 * Store Throttling (node level and/or index level) with options on merge or all ("#2041":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2041)
 * Stored Fields Compression ("#2037":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2037)
 * Store Compression: Term Vector Vector ("#2049":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2049)


h2. Enhancements:
 * Return 503 when threadpool limit is reached ("#2048":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2048)
 * Allow to pass es.default. settings to the process, using it as default value unless specified in the config file ("#2016":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2016)
 * Allow to filter client and "just" data nodes from controlling elected master (default client to true) ("#2014":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2014)
 * Upgrade to Netty 3.5.0.Final ("#2013":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2013)
 * Init script in Debian package ignores some options in elasticsearch.yml ("#1765":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/1765)
 * Index level allocation filtering: Add _host option ("#1991":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/1991)
 * Multi Search API: Allow to set search_type on REST endpoint URI to apply to all search requests ("#2023":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2023)
 * Query DSL:
 ** Add more fuzzy options in different queries (text, query_string/field) ("#1974":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/1974)
 ** Add max_boost to custom_filters_score to cap boosting ("#1973":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/1973)
 ** term/terms filter performance improvement (bulk reading) ("#1972":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/1972)
 ** text query to support minimum_should_match ("#1971":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/1971)
 ** Add null_value and existence to missing filter, filtering both null values and missing fields ("#1970":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/1970)
 * Rest API: Add @HEAD@ support for @/{index}/{type}/{id}@ to quickly check if doc exists or not ("#2047":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2047)


h2. Bug fixes:
 * Failure to recover properly on node(s) restart ("#2046":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2046)
 * Improve cluster resiliency to disconnected sub clusters + fix a shard allocation bug with quick rolling restarts ("#2042":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2042)
 * fix bug index.ttl.disable_purge should be in IndexMetaData ("#2020":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2020)
 * .DS_Store file in .deb package ("#2017":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2017)
 * Quoted query_string gives NullPointerException with not_analyzed field (0.19.4) ("#2006":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2006)
 * TransportClient does not load plugins ("#1982":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/1982)
 * Get mapping with no index specified on an empty cluster returns 404 ("#1976":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/1976)
 * River name re-use not possible between node shutdowns ("#1921":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/1921)


