---
layout: download
cat: download
version: 0.90.0.RC1
title: 0.90.0.RC1
download_url: https://download.elasticsearch.org/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-0.90.0.RC1.zip
download_nix_url: https://download.elasticsearch.org/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-0.90.0.RC1.tar.gz
download_deb_url: https://download.elasticsearch.org/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-0.90.0.RC1.deb
download_source_url: https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/zipball/v0.90.0.RC1
release_notes: true
---

h2. Upgrade Notes:
 * This is a release candidate release. We recommend testing this version out in developement, and not running it in production yet.
 * Upgrading from 0.20 requires a full cluster restart.

h2. Breaking changes:
 * GeoShape precision ("#2803":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2803)
 * Remove JMX connector creation flags, and JMX attributes ("#2728":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2728)
 * Change field data stats header from @field_data@ to @fielddata@. ("#2727":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2727)
 * Change the geo_shape support to only rely on the lucene geo_shape support ("#2720":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2720)


h2. New features:
 * Suggest Feature should have a dedicated REST endpoint ("#2774":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2774)
 * Implement search shards API ("#2726":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2726)
 * Add Phrase Suggester ("#2709":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2709)


h2. Enhancements:
 * Specialise the default codec to reuse Lucene41 files in the default case  ("#2799":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2799)
 * change geo_shape default configuration ("#2756":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2756)
 * Add KeywordRepeatFilter from Lucene to Beta2 ("#2753":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2753)
 * Move Smoothing Model into its own sub-object in the Phrase suggest request ("#2735":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2735)
 * @_count@ should take the @preference@ parameter for targeting specific shards ("#2698":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2698)
 * "-4" parsed as a date ("#2694":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2694)
 * Field Data:
 ** optimize long type to use narrowest possible type automatically ("#2795":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2795)
 ** Add @node@ level cache type ("#2722":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2722)
 * Mapping: dynamic flag is explicitly returned even when not set ("#2789":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2789)
 * Network: A closed channel might not always fire up a close event ("#2733":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2733)
 * Query DSL: Filtered query to make query optional (defaults to mach_all) ("#2718":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2718)


h2. Bug fixes:
 * Sort Fails with AIOOB exception if field has rarely a value. ("#2773":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2773)
 * Repeated ConnectExceptions in logs until node is restarted ("#2766":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2766)
 * PhraseSuggest CandidateGenerator doesn't respect @size@ parameter ("#2752":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2752)
 * has_child query AVG score mode does not always work correctly ("#2750":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2750)
 * Term/Terms filters on numeric fields gives wrong result ("#2746":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2746)
 * has_child returns parent and child ("#2744":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2744)
 * Problems with range searches for time with lte ("#2731":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2731)
 * Phrase Suggester "size" should override "shard_size" when searching on index with 1 shard ("#2729":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2729)
 * Interchanged values in field_data stats ("#2724":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2724)
 * NullPointerException when applying a sort and using ignoreMapped(true) and the field does not exist (0.20.5) ("#2711":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2711)
 * Nested sort not calculating avg/sum ("#2701":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2701)
 * Ids filter without a type throws IndexOutOfBounds ("#2695":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2695)
 * malformed elasticsearch.yml causes unresponsive hang ("#2693":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2693)
 * Using Java node client and deleting all indexes cause system hungs ("#2692":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2692)
 * NPE with Fuzzy Like This on non existing field ("#2690":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2690)
 * Bug when searching concrete and routing aliased indices ("#2682":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2682)
 * Index dynamic settings might not be allowed to be applied on master with no data node ("#2675":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2675)
 * Analyze API returns in YAML format if analyzed string begins with --- ("#2624":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2624)
 * null pointer exception in 19.8. same code path exists in master branch ("#2546":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2546)
 * The @_id@ path should not allow arrays ("#2275":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2275)
 * Allow index: "no" for _type ("#2696":http://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/issues/issue/2696)

