---
layout: guide
title: Plugins
cat: guide
sidebar: reference_modules
---

h1. Plugins

p. Plugins are a way to enhance the basic elasticsearch functionality in a custom manner. They range from adding custom mapping types, custom analyzers (in a more built in fashion), native scripts, custom discovery and more.

h2. Installing plugins

p. Installing plugins can either be done manually by placing them under the @plugins@ directory, or using the @plugin@ script. Several plugins can be found under the "elasticsearch":https://github.com/elasticsearch organization in GitHub, starting with @elasticsearch-@.

p. Installing plugins typically take the form of @plugin -install <org>/<user/component>/<version>@. The plugins will be automatically downloaded in this case from @download.elasticsearch.org@, and in case they don't exist there, from maven (central and sonatype).

p. A plugin can also be installed directly by specifying the URL for it, for example: @bin/plugin -url file://path/to/plugin -install plugin-name@.

h2. Site Plugins

p. Plugins can have "sites" in them, any plugin that exists under the @plugins@ directory with a @_site@ directory, its content will be statically served when hitting @/_plugin/[plugin_name]/@ url. Those can be added even after the process has started.

p. Installed plugins that do not contain any java related content, will automatically be detected as site plugins, and their content will be moved under @_site@.

p. The ability to install plugins from github allows to easily install site plugins hosted there by downloading the actual repo, for example, running:

<pre class="prettyprint">
bin/plugin -install mobz/elasticsearch-head
bin/plugin -install lukas-vlcek/bigdesk
</pre>

p. Will install both of those site plugins, with @elasticsearch-head@ available under @http://localhost:9200/_plugin/head/@ and @bigdesk@ available under @http://localhost:9200/_plugin/bigdesk/@.

h2. Mandatory Plugins

p. If you rely on some plugins, you can define mandatory plugins using the @plugin.mandatory@ attribute, for example, here is a sample config:

<pre class="prettyprint">
plugin.mandatory: mapper-attachments,lang-groovy
</pre>

p. For safety reasons, if a mandatory plugin is not installed, the node will not start.

h2. Installed Plugins

A list of the currently installed plugins can be retrieved from the @/_plugin/@
end point:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XGET 'http://localhost:9200/_plugin/?pretty'
</pre>

h1. Known Plugins

h2. Analysis Plugins

* "Combo Analysis Plugin":https://github.com/yakaz/elasticsearch-analysis-combo/ (by Olivier Favre, Yakaz)
* "Smart Chinese Analysis Plugin":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-analysis-smartcn (by elasticsearch team)
* "ICU Analysis plugin":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-analysis-icu (by elasticsearch team)
* "Stempel (Polish) Analysis plugin":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-analysis-stempel (by elasticsearch team)
* "IK Analysis Plugin":https://github.com/medcl/elasticsearch-analysis-ik (by Medcl)
* "Mmseg Analysis Plugin":https://github.com/medcl/elasticsearch-analysis-mmseg (by Medcl)
* "Hunspell Analysis Plugin":https://github.com/jprante/elasticsearch-analysis-hunspell (by Jörg Prante)
* "Japanese (Kuromoji) Analysis plugin":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-analysis-kuromoji (by elasticsearch team).
* "Japanese Analysis plugin":https://github.com/suguru/elasticsearch-analysis-japanese (by suguru).
* "Russian and English Morphological Analysis Plugin":https://github.com/imotov/elasticsearch-analysis-morphology (by Igor Motov)
* "Pinyin Analysis Plugin":https://github.com/medcl/elasticsearch-analysis-pinyin (by Medcl)
* "String2Integer Analysis Plugin":https://github.com/medcl/elasticsearch-analysis-string2int (by Medcl)

h2. River Plugins

* "CouchDB River Plugin":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-river-couchdb (by elasticsearch team)
* "Wikipedia River Plugin":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-river-wikipedia (by elasticsearch team)
* "Twitter River Plugin":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-river-twitter (by elasticsearch team)
* "RabbitMQ River Plugin":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-river-rabbitmq (by elasticsearch team)
* "RSS River Plugin":http://dadoonet.github.com/rssriver/ (by David Pilato)
* "MongoDB River Plugin":https://github.com/richardwilly98/elasticsearch-river-mongodb/ (by Richard Louapre)
* "Open Archives Initiative (OAI) River Plugin":https://github.com/jprante/elasticsearch-river-oai/ (by Jörg Prante)
* "St9 River Plugin":https://github.com/sunnygleason/elasticsearch-river-st9 (by Sunny Gleason)
* "Sofa River Plugin":https://github.com/adamlofts/elasticsearch-river-sofa (by adamlofts)
* "Amazon SQS River Plugin":https://github.com/aleski/elasticsearch-river-amazonsqs (by Alex B)
* "JDBC River Plugin":https://github.com/jprante/elasticsearch-river-jdbc (by Jörg Prante)
* "FileSystem River Plugin":http://www.pilato.fr/fsriver/ (by David Pilato)
* "LDAP River Plugin":https://github.com/tlrx/elasticsearch-river-ldap (by Tanguy Leroux)
* "Dropbox River Plugin":http://www.pilato.fr/dropbox/ (by David Pilato)
* "ActiveMQ River Plugin":https://github.com/domdorn/elasticsearch-river-activemq/ (by Dominik Dorn)
* "Solr River Plugin":https://github.com/javanna/elasticsearch-river-solr/ (by Luca Cavanna)
* "CSV River Plugin":https://github.com/xxBedy/elasticsearch-river-csv (by Martin Bednar)

h2. Transport Plugins

* "Servlet transport":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-transport-wares (by elasticsearch team)
* "Memcached transport plugin":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-transport-memcached (by elasticsearch team)
* "Thrift Transport":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-transport-thrift (by elasticsearch team)
* "ZeroMQ transport layer plugin":https://github.com/tlrx/transport-zeromq (by Tanguy Leroux)
* "Jetty HTTP transport plugin":https://github.com/sonian/elasticsearch-jetty (by Sonian Inc.)

h2. Scripting Plugins

* "Python language Plugin":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-lang-python (by elasticsearch team)
* "JavaScript language Plugin":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-lang-javascript (by elasticsearch team)
* "Groovy lang Plugin":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-lang-groovy (by elasticsearch team)

h2. Site Plugins

* "BigDesk Plugin":https://github.com/lukas-vlcek/bigdesk (by Lukáš Vlček)
* "Elasticsearch Head Plugin":https://github.com/mobz/elasticsearch-head (by Ben Birch)
* "Paramedic Plugin":https://github.com/karmi/elasticsearch-paramedic (by Karel Minařík)
* "SegmentSpy Plugin":https://github.com/polyfractal/elasticsearch-segmentspy (by Zachary Tong)
* "Inquisitor Plugin":https://github.com/polyfractal/elasticsearch-inquisitor (by Zachary Tong)

h2. Misc Plugins

* "Mapper Attachments Type plugin":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-mapper-attachments (by elasticsearch team)
* "Hadoop Plugin":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-hadoop (by elasticsearch team)
* "AWS Cloud Plugin":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-cloud-aws (by elasticsearch team)
* "ElasticSearch Mock Solr Plugin":https://github.com/mattweber/elasticsearch-mocksolrplugin (by Matt Weber)
* "Suggester Plugin":https://github.com/spinscale/elasticsearch-suggest-plugin (by Alexander Reelsen)
* "ElasticSearch PartialUpdate Plugin":https://github.com/medcl/elasticsearch-partialupdate (by Medcl)
* "ZooKeeper Discovery Plugin":https://github.com/sonian/elasticsearch-zookeeper (by Sonian Inc.)
* "ElasticSearch Changes Plugin":https://github.com/derryx/elasticsearch-changes-plugin (by Thomas Peuss)

