---
layout: guide
title: ICU Analysis Plugin
cat: guide
sidebar: reference_index_modules_analysis
---

p. The "ICU":http://icu-project.org/ analysis plugin allows for unicode normalization, collation and folding. The plugin is called "elasticsearch-analysis-icu":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-analysis-icu.


p. The plugin includes the following analysis components:

h1. ICU Normalization

p. Normalizes characters as explained "here":http://userguide.icu-project.org/transforms/normalization. It registers itself by default under @icu_normalizer@ or @icuNormalizer@ using the default settings. Allows for the name parameter to be provided which can include the following values: @nfc@, @nfkc@, and @nfkc_cf@. Here is a sample settings:

<pre class="prettyprint">
{
    "index" : {
        "analysis" : {
            "analyzer" : {
                "normalization" : {
                    "tokenizer" : "keyword",
                    "filter" : ["icu_normalizer"]
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
</pre>

h1. ICU Folding

p. Folding of unicode characters based on @UTR#30@. It registers itself under @icu_folding@ and @icuFolding@ names. 
The filter also does lowercasing, which means the lowercase filter can normally be left out. Sample setting:

<pre class="prettyprint">
{
    "index" : {
        "analysis" : {
            "analyzer" : {
                "folding" : {
                    "tokenizer" : "keyword",
                    "filter" : ["icu_folding"]
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
</pre>

h2. Filtering

p. The folding can be filtered by a set of unicode characters with the parameter @unicodeSetFilter@. This is useful for a non-internationalized search engine where retaining a set of national characters which are primary letters in a specific language is wanted. See syntax for the UnicodeSet "here":http://icu-project.org/apiref/icu4j/com/ibm/icu/text/UnicodeSet.html.

p. The Following example excempt Swedish characters from the folding. Note that the filtered characters are NOT lowercased which is why we add that filter below.

<pre class="prettyprint">
{
    "index" : {
        "analysis" : {
            "analyzer" : {
                "folding" : {
                    "tokenizer" : "standard",
                    "filter" : ["my_icu_folding", "lowercase"]
                }
            }
            "filter" : {
                "my_icu_folding" : {
                    "type" : "icu_folding"
                    "unicodeSetFilter" : "[^åäöÅÄÖ]"
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
</pre>

h1. ICU Collation

p. Uses collation token filter. Allows to either specify the rules for collation (defined "here":http://www.icu-project.org/userguide/Collate_Customization.html) using the @rules@ parameter (can point to a location or expressed in the settings, location can be relative to config location), or using the @language@ parameter (further specialized by country and variant). By default registers under @icu_collation@ or @icuCollation@ and uses the default locale.

p. Here is a sample settings:

<pre class="prettyprint">
{
    "index" : {
        "analysis" : {
            "analyzer" : {
                "collation" : {
                    "tokenizer" : "keyword",
                    "filter" : ["icu_collation"]
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
</pre>

p. And here is a sample of custom collation:

<pre class="prettyprint">
{
    "index" : {
        "analysis" : {
            "analyzer" : {
                "collation" : {
                    "tokenizer" : "keyword",
                    "filter" : ["myCollator"]
                }
            },
            "filter" : {
                "myCollator" : {
                    "type" : "icu_collation",
                    "language" : "en"
                }
            }
        }
    }
}    
</pre>
