---
layout: guide
title: Analysis
cat: guide
sidebar: reference_index_modules_analysis
---


p. The index analysis module acts as a configurable registry of Analyzers that can be used in order to both break indexed (analyzed) fields when a document is indexed and process query strings. It maps to the Lucene @Analyzer@. 

p. Analyzers are (generally) composed of a single @Tokenizer@ and zero or more @TokenFilters@. A set of @CharFilters@ can be associated with an analyzer to process the characters prior to other analysis steps. The analysis module allows one to register @TokenFilters@, @Tokenizers@ and @Analyzers@ under logical names that can then be referenced either in mapping definitions or in certain APIs. The Analysis module automatically registers (*if not explicitly defined*) built in analyzers, token filters, and tokenizers. 

p. Here is a sample configuration:

<pre class="prettyprint">
index :
    analysis :
        analyzer : 
            standard : 
                type : standard
                stopwords : [stop1, stop2]
            myAnalyzer1 :
                type : standard
                stopwords : [stop1, stop2, stop3]
                max_token_length : 500
            # configure a custom analyzer which is 
            # exactly like the default standard analyzer
            myAnalyzer2 :
                tokenizer : standard
                filter : [standard, lowercase, stop]
        tokenizer :
            myTokenizer1 :
                type : standard
                max_token_length : 900
            myTokenizer2 :
                type : keyword
                buffer_size : 512
        filter :
            myTokenFilter1 :
                type : stop
                stopwords : [stop1, stop2, stop3, stop4]
            myTokenFilter2 :
                type : length
                min : 0
                max : 2000
</pre>

p. All analyzers, tokenizers, and token filters can be configured with a @version@ parameter to control which Lucene version behavior they should use. Possible values are: @3.0@, @3.1@, @3.2@, @3.3@ and @3.4@ (the highest version number is the default option).

h1. Types

h2. Analyzer

p. Analyzers in general are broken down into a @Tokenizer@ with zero or more @TokenFilter@ applied to it. The analysis module allows one to register @TokenFilters@, @Tokenizers@ and @Analyzers@ under logical names which can then be referenced either in mapping definitions or in certain APIs. Here is a list of analyzer types:

h2. Char Filter

p. Char filters allow one to filter out the stream of text before it gets tokenized (used within an @Analyzer@). 

h2. Tokenizer

p. Tokenizers act as the first stage of the analysis process (used within an @Analyzer@).

h2. Token Filter

p. Token filters act as additional stages of the analysis process (used within an @Analyzer@).

h1. Default Analyzers

p. An analyzer is registered under a logical name. It can then be referenced from mapping definitions or certain APIs. When none are defined, defaults are used. There is an option to define which analyzers will be used by default when none can be derived.

p. The @default@ logical name allows one to configure an analyzer that will be used both for indexing and for searching APIs. The @default_index@ logical name can be used to configure a default analyzer that will be used just when indexing, and the @default_search@ can be used to configure a default analyzer that will be used just when searching.

h1. Aliasing Analyzers

p. Analyzers can be aliased to have several registered lookup names associated with them. For example:

<pre class="prettyprint">
index :
  analysis :
    analyzer :
      standard :
        alias: [alias1, alias2]
        type : standard
        stopwords : [test1, test2, test3]
</pre>

p. Will allow the @standard@ analyzer to also be referenced with @alias1@ and @alias2@ values.
