---
layout: guide
title: Community Supported Clients & Integrations
cat: guide
---

h2. Clients

h3. Perl

* "ElasticSearch.pm":http://github.com/clintongormley/ElasticSearch.pm: Perl client.

h3. Python

* "pyes":http://github.com/aparo/pyes: Python client.
* "pyelasticsearch":http://github.com/rhec/pyelasticsearch: Python client.
* "ESClient":https://github.com/eriky/ESClient: A lightweight and easy to use Python client for ElasticSearch.
* "rawes":https://github.com/humangeo/rawes: Python low level client.
* "elasticutils":https://github.com/mozilla/elasticutils/: A friendly chainable ElasticSearch interface for Python.

h3. Ruby

* "Tire":http://github.com/karmi/tire: Ruby API & DSL, with ActiveRecord/ActiveModel integration.
* "rubberband":http://github.com/grantr/rubberband: Ruby client.
* "stretcher":https://github.com/PoseBiz/stretcher: Ruby client.
*  "elastic_searchable":https://github.com/wireframe/elastic_searchable/: Ruby client + Rails integration.

h3. PHP

* "Elastica":http://github.com/ruflin/Elastica: PHP client.
* "elasticsearch":http://github.com/nervetattoo/elasticsearch PHP client.
* "Sherlock":http://github.com/polyfractal/Sherlock: PHP client, one-to-one mapping with query DSL, fluid interface.

h3. Java

* "Jest":https://github.com/searchbox-io/Jest: Java Rest client.


h3. Javascript

* "Elastic.js":https://github.com/fullscale/elastic.js: A JavaScript implementation of the ElasticSearch Query DSL and Core API.

h3. .Net

* "PlainElastic.Net":https://github.com/Yegoroff/PlainElastic.Net: .NET client.
* "NEST":https://github.com/Mpdreamz/NEST: .NET client.
* "ElasticSearch.NET":https://github.com/medcl/ElasticSearch.Net: .NET client.

h3. Scala

* "scalastic":https://github.com/bsadeh/scalastic: Scala client.
* "esclient":https://github.com/scalastuff/esclient: Thin Scala client.

h3. Clojure

* "Elastisch":http://github.com/clojurewerkz/elastisch: Clojure client.

h3. Go

* "elastigo":https://github.com/mattbaird/elastigo: Go client.

h3. Erlang

* "erlastic_search":http://github.com/tsloughter/erlastic_search: Erlang client.
* "Tirexs":https://github.com/datahogs/tirexs: An "Elixir":https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir based API/DSL, inspired by "Tire":http://github.com/karmi/tire. Ready to use in pure Erlang environment.

h3. EventMachine

* "em-elasticsearch":http://github.com/vangberg/em-elasticsearch: elasticsearch library for eventmachine.

h3. Linux Command Line

* "es2unix":https://github.com/elasticsearch/es2unix: Elasticsearch API consumable by the command line.

h3. OCaml

* "ocaml-elasticsearch":https://github.com/tovbinm/ocaml-elasticsearch: OCaml client for Elasticsearch

h3. Smalltalk

* "Elasticsearch":http://ss3.gemstone.com/ss/Elasticsearch.html - Smalltalk client for Elasticsearch

h2. Integrations

* "Grails":http://grails.org/plugin/elasticsearch: ElasticSearch Grails plugin.
* "escargot":https://github.com/angelf/escargot: ElasticSearch connector for Rails (WIP).
* "Catalyst":https://metacpan.org/module/Catalyst::Model::Search::ElasticSearch: ElasticSearch and Catalyst integration.
* "django-elasticsearch":http://github.com/aparo/django-elasticsearch: Django ElasticSearch Backend.
* "elasticflume":http://github.com/Aconex/elasticflume: "Flume":http://github.com/cloudera/flume sink implementation.
* "Terrastore Search":http://code.google.com/p/terrastore/wiki/Search_Integration: "Terrastore":http://code.google.com/p/terrastore/ integration module with elasticsearch.
* "Wonderdog":https://github.com/infochimps/wonderdog: Hadoop bulk loader into elasticsearch.
* "Play! Framework":http://geeks.aretotally.in/play-framework-module-elastic-search-distributed-searching-with-json-http-rest-or-java: Integrate with Play! Framework Application.
* "ElasticaBundle":https://github.com/Exercise/FOQElasticaBundle: Symfony2 Bundle wrapping Elastica.
* "Drupal":http://drupal.org/project/elasticsearch: Drupal ElasticSearch integration.
* "couch_es":https://github.com/refuge/couch_es: elasticsearch helper for couchdb based products (apache couchdb, bigcouch & refuge)
* "Jetty":https://github.com/sonian/elasticsearch-jetty: Jetty HTTP Transport
* "Spring Elasticsearch":https://github.com/dadoonet/spring-elasticsearch: Spring Factory for Elasticsearch
* "Apache Camel Integration":https://camel.apache.org/elasticsearch.html: An Apache camel component to integrate elasticsearch
* "elasticsearch-test":https://github.com/tlrx/elasticsearch-test: Elasticsearch Java annotations for unit testing with "JUnit":http://www.junit.org/
* "Wp-ElasticSearch":http://searchbox-io.github.com/wp-elasticsearch/: ElasticSearch WordPress Plugin
* "eslogd":https://github.com/OlegKunitsyn/eslogd: Linux daemon that replicates events to a central ElasticSearch server in real-time
* "elasticsearch-clojure-repl":https://github.com/drewr/elasticsearch-clojure-repl: Plugin that embeds nREPL for run-time introspective adventure! Also serves as an nREPL transport.
* "Haystack":http://haystacksearch.org/: Modular search for Django
* "play2-elasticsearch":https://github.com/cleverage/play2-elasticsearch: ElasticSearch module for Play Framework 2.x
* "dangle":https://github.com/fullscale/dangle: A set of AngularJS directives that provide common visualizations for elasticsearch based on D3.

h2. Misc

* "Puppet":https://github.com/electrical/puppet-elasticsearch: Elasticsearch puppet module.
* "Chef":http://github.com/elasticsearch/cookbook-elasticsearch: Chef cookbook for Elasticsearch
* "elasticsearch-rpms":https://github.com/tavisto/elasticsearch-rpms: RPMs for elasticsearch.
* "daikon":http://www.github.com/neogenix/daikon: Daikon ElasticSearch CLI
* "Scrutineer":https://github.com/Aconex/scrutineer: A high performance consistency checker to compare what you've indexed with your source of truth content (e.g. DB)

h2. Health and Performance Monitoring

* "bigdesk":https://github.com/lukas-vlcek/bigdesk: Live charts and statistics for elasticsearch cluster.
* "paramedic":https://github.com/karmi/elasticsearch-paramedic: Live charts with cluster stats and indices/shards information.
* "SPM for ElasticSearch":http://sematext.com/spm/index.html: Performance monitoring with live charts showing cluster and node stats, integrated alerts, email reports, etc.
* "check-es":https://github.com/radu-gheorghe/check-es: Nagios/Shinken plugins for checking on elasticsearch
* "check_elasticsearch":https://github.com/anchor/nagios-plugin-elasticsearch: An ElasticSearch availability and performance monitoring plugin for Nagios.
* "opsview-elasticsearch":https://github.com/rbramley/Opsview-elasticsearch: Opsview plugin written in Perl for monitoring ElasticSearch
* "SegmentSpy":https://github.com/polyfractal/elasticsearch-segmentspy: Plugin to watch Lucene segment merges across your cluster

h2. Front Ends

* "elasticsearch-head":https://github.com/mobz/elasticsearch-head: A web front end for an elastic search cluster.
* "browser":https://github.com/OlegKunitsyn/elasticsearch-browser: Web front-end over elasticsearch data.
* "Inquisitor":https://github.com/polyfractal/elasticsearch-inquisitor: Front-end to help debug/diagnose queries and analyzers

h2. GitHub

p. GitHub is a place where a lot of development is done around *elasticsearch*, here is a simple search for "repos":https://github.com/search?q=elasticsearch&type=Repositories.
